---
title: Papers
---
* Lee, Tommy Tsz-Ming, R. Pancheva _&_ M.L. Zubizarreta (2022). "Genuinly tenseless: Encoding time in Cantonese", _Proceedings of SALT 32_. [[pdf]](@root/papers/LP&Z(2022)SALT.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. (2022). “Determiner vs. adjectival numerals and nominal number” In L. Stockall, L. Martí, D. Adger, I. Roy and S. Ouwayda (eds). _For Hagit: A Celebration_, QMUL Occasional Papers in Linguistics 47. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P(2022)HBFest.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. _&_ M.L. Zubizarreta (2022). "No tense: Temporality in the grammar of Paraguayan Guarani", Ms. under revisions. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P&Z(2022)ms.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. (2021). “Morphosyntactic variation in numerically-quantified noun phrases in Bulgarian”, Ms. under review. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P(2021)ms.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. _&_ M.L. Zubizarreta (2020). “Temporal reference in the absence of tense in Paraguayan Guaraní”, In In M. Asatryan, Y. Song, A. Whitmal (eds.) _Proceedings of NELS 50_ 265-278. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P&Z(2020)NELS.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. _&_ D. Rudin (2019). “Speaker discourse roles and the discourse profile of reportative evidentials”, In J.J. Schlöder, D. McHugh _&_ F. Roelofsen (eds.) _Pre-proceedings of the Amsterdam Colloquium 2019_, 327-336. [[pdf]](http://events.illc.uva.nl/AC/AC2019/uploaded_files/inlineitem/Pancheva_and_Rudin_Speaker_discourse_roles_and_the_.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. _&_ M.L. Zubizarreta (2019). “On the role of person features in the evidential-temporal connection”, _Canadian Journal of Linguistics_ 65(1): 1–36, a special volume on _Person_. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P&Z(2019)CJL.pdf)
* Menon, M. _&_ R. Pancheva (2019). “Degree achievements of color”, In M. Cabrera _&_ J. Camacho (eds.) _Exploring Interfaces: Lexicon, Syntax, Semantics & Sound_. Cambridge University Press, 85-108. [[pdf]](@root/papers/M&P(2019)EI.pdf)
* McKinney-Bock, K. _&_ R. Pancheva (2019). “Why is attributive _heavy_ distributive?”, In D. Altshuler _&_ J. Rett (eds.) _The Semantics of Plurals, Focus, Degrees, & Times_. Springer, 81-110. [[pdf]](@root/papers/McK-B&P(2019)SPFDT.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. (2018). “_How many flowers! So many colors!_&nbsp; Number marking in cardinality exclamatives in Bulgarian”, In S. Franks, V. Chidambaram, B. Joseph, _&_ I. Krapova (eds.) _Katerino Mome: Studies in Bulgarian Morphosyntax in Honor of Catherine Rudin_. Slavica Publishers, 197–234. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P(2018)RudinFest.pdf)
* Wellwood, A., R. Pancheva, V. Hacquard, _&_ C. Phillips (2018). “The anatomy of a comparative illusion”, _Journal of Semantics_ 35 (3), 543–583. [[pdf]](@root/papers/WPH&P(2018)JS.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. _&_ M.L. Zubizarreta (2018). “The Person Case Constraint: The syntactic encoding of perspective”, _Natural Language & Linguistic Theory_ 36, 1291-1337. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P&Z(2018)NLLT.pdf)
* Zubizarreta, M.L., _&_ R. Pancheva (2017). “A formal characterization of person-based alignment: The case of Paraguayan Guaraní”, _Natural Language & Linguistic Theory_ 35, 1161-1204. [[pdf]](@root/papers/Z&P(2017)NLLT.pdf)
* Zubizarreta, M.L. _&_ R. Pancheva (2017). “A note on the syntax of possession in Paraguayan Guaraní”, In O. Fernández Soriano, Elena Castroviejo _&_ Isabel Pérez Jiménez (eds.) _Boundaries, Phases, & Interfaces_, John Benjamins, 87-106. [[pdf]](@root/papers/Z&P(2017)BPI.pdf)
* Bhatt, R. _&_ R. Pancheva (2017). “Conditionals”, In M. Everaert _&_ H. van Riemsdijk (eds.) _The Wiley Blackwell Companion to Syntax_. 2nd ed., 1-48. [[pdf]](@root/papers/B&P(2017)Blackwell_cond.pdf)
* Bhatt, R. _&_ R. Pancheva (2017). “Implicit arguments”, In M. Everaert _&_ H. van Riemsdijk (eds.) _The Wiley Blackwell Companion to Syntax_. 2nd ed., 1-35. [[pdf]](@root/papers/B&P(2017)Blackwell_imp.pdf)
* Menon, M. _&_ R. Pancheva (2016). “Decomposing color expressions in Malayalam”, In R. Balusu _&_ S. Sundaresan (eds.), _Proceedings of Formal Approaches to South Asian Languages 5_, 3-20. [[pdf]](https://ojs.ub.uni-konstanz.de/jsal/index.php/fasal/article/view/84)
* Tomaszewicz, B. _&_ R. Pancheva (2016). “Obligatory and optional focus association in sentence processing.”, In F. Salfner _&_ U. Sauerland (eds.), _Pre-proceedings of Trends in Experimental Pragmatics_, 153-161. [[pdf]](https://www.xprag.de/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/TiXPrag-preproc.pdf)
* Tomaszewicz, B. _&_ R. Pancheva (2016). “Focus association and the scope of superlative _-est_”, In N. Bade, P. Berezovskaya _&_ A. Schöller (eds.) _Proceedings of Sinn und Bedeutung 20_, 748-760. [[pdf]](https://semanticsarchive.net/sub2015/SeparateArticles/Tomaszewicz-Pancheva-SuB20.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. (2015). “Quantity superlatives: The view from Slavic and its cross-linguistic implications”, In G. Flinn, K. Franich, J. Pietraszko _&_ T. Vardomskaya (eds.) _Proceedings of CLS 49_. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P(2015)CLS.pdf)
* Menon, M. _&_ R. Pancheva (2014). “The grammatical life of property concept roots in Malayalam”, In U. Etxeberria, A. Fălăuș, A. Irurtzun _&_ B. Leferman (eds.) _Proceedings of Sinn und Bedeutung 18_, 289-302. [[pdf]](https://semanticsarchive.net/sub2013/SeparateArticles/Menon&Pancheva.pdf)
* O’Connor, E., R. Pancheva _&_ E. Kaiser (2013). “Evidence for online repair of Escher sentences”, In E. Chemla, V. Homer _&_ G. Winterstein (eds.) _Proceedings of Sinn und Bedeutung 17_, 363-380. [[pdf]](https://semanticsarchive.net/sub2012/OConnorPanchevaKaiser.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. _&_ B. Tomaszewicz (2012). “Cross-linguistic differences in superlative movement out of nominal phrases”, In N. Arnett _&_ R. Bennett (eds.) _Proceedings of WCCFL 30_, Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project, 292-302. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P&T(2012)WCCFL.pdf)
* Wellwood, A., V. Hacquard, _&_ R. Pancheva (2012), “Measuring and comparing individuals and events”, _Journal of Semantics_ 29, 207-228. [[pdf]](@root/papers/WH&P(2012)JS.pdf)
* Bergeton, U. _&_ R. Pancheva (2012). “A new perspective on the historical development of English intensifiers and reflexives”, In D. Jonas, J. Whitman _&_ A. Garrett (eds.). _Grammatical Change: Origins, Nature, Outcomes_. Oxford University Press, 123-138. [[pdf]](@root/papers/B&P(2012)GC.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. _&_ B. Tomaszewicz (2010). “Experimental evidence for the syntax of phrasal comparatives in Polish”, In _Penn Working Papers in Linguistics_ vol. 17.1: _Proceedings of the 34th Penn Linguistics Colloquium_. [[pdf]](https://repository.upenn.edu/pwpl/vol17/iss1/21/)
* Pancheva, R. (2010). “More students attended FASL than CONSOLE”, In W. Browne, A. Cooper, A. Fisher, E. Kesici, N. Predolac _&_ D. Zec (eds.) _Formal Approaches to Slavic Linguistics 18: The Cornell Meeting_, 2009. Michigan Slavic Publications, Ann Arbor, 383-400. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P(2010)FASL.pdf) 
* Pancheva, R. (2009). “Directionality of cliticization: Comments on Mavrogiorgos’ ‘C-T and the EPP: Deriving enclisis in Modern Greek’”, In C. Halpert, J. Hartman, _&_ D. Hill (eds.) _Proceedings of the 2007 Workshop in Greek Syntax & Semantics at MIT_. _MITWPL 57_, 155-170. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P(2009)MITWPL.pdf) 
* Łazorczyk, A. _&_ R. Pancheva (2009). “From ‘Two’ to ‘Both’: Historical changes in the syntax and meaning of _oba_ in Slavic”, In R.P. Leow, H. Campos _&_ D. Lardiere (eds.) _Little Words: Their History, Phonology, Syntax, Semantics, Pragmatics & Acquisition_. Georgetown University Press. 9-19. [[pdf]](@root/papers/L&P(2009)LW.pdf)  
* Pancheva, R. (2008). “Head-directionality of TP in Old Church Slavonic”, In A. Antonenko, J. Bailyn _&_ C. Bethin (eds.) _Formal Approaches to Slavic Linguistics 16: The Stony Brook Meeting, 2007_. Michigan Slavic Publications, Ann Arbor, 313-332. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P(2008)FASL.pdf) 
* Newman A., M. Ullman, R. Pancheva, D. Waligura _&_ H. Neville (2007). “An ERP study of regular and irregular English past tense inflection”. _NeuroImage_ 34, 435-445. [[pdf]](@root/papers/NUPW&N(2006)NI.pdf)
* Bhatt, R. _&_ R. Pancheva (2007). “Degree quantifiers, position of merger effects with their restrictors, and conservativity”, In C. Barker _&_ P. Jacobson (eds.) _Direct Compositionality_, Oxford University Press. 306-335. [[pdf]](@root/papers/B&P(2007)DC.pdf) 
* Pancheva, R. (2006). “Phrasal and clausal comparatives in Slavic”, In J. Lavine, S. Franks, M. Tasseva-Kurktchieva _&_ H. Filip (eds.) _Formal Approaches to Slavic Linguistics 14: The Princeton Meeting_, 236-257. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P(2006)FASL.pdf) 
* Bhatt, R. _&_ R. Pancheva (2006). “Conditionals”, _The Blackwell Companion to Syntax_, v. I, Blackwell, 638-687. [[pdf]](@root/papers/B&P(2006)SynCom_cond.pdf)
* Bhatt, R. _&_ R. Pancheva (2006). “Implicit arguments”, _The Blackwell Companion to Syntax_, v. II, Blackwell, 554-584. [[pdf]](@root/papers/B&P(2006)SynCom_imp.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. (2005). “The rise and fall of second-position clitics”, _Natural Language & Linguistic Theory_. 23 (1), 103-167. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P(2005)NLLT.pdf)
* Ullman, M., R. Pancheva, T. Love, E. Yee, D. Swinne _&_ G. Hickok. (2005). “Neural correlates of lexicon _&_ grammar: Evidence from the production, reading, and judgment of inflection in aphasia”, _Brain & Language_ 93, 185-238. [[pdf]](@root/papers/UPLYS&H(2005)BL.pdf)
* Bhatt, R. _&_ R. Pancheva (2004). “Late merger of degree clauses”, _Linguistic Inquiry_ 35, 1-45. [[pdf]](@root/papers/B&P(2004)LI.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. (2004). “Another perfect puzzle”, In V. Chand, A. Kelleher, A.J. Rodríguez, _&_ B. Schmeiser (eds.) _WCCFL 23_. Cascadilla Press. 621-634. 
* Pancheva, R. _&_ von Stechow (2004). “On the Present Perfect Puzzle”, In K. Moulton _&_ M. Wolf (eds.) _NELS 34_. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P&vS(2004)NELS.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. (2004). “Balkan possessive clitics: The problem of case _&_ category”, In O. Tomić (ed.) _Balkan Syntax & Semantics_. John Benjamins, 175-219. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P(2004)BSS.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. (2003). “The aspectual makeup of perfect participles _&_ the interpretations of the perfect”, In A. Alexiadou, M. Rathert, _&_ A. von Stechow (eds.) _Perfect Explorations_. Mouton de Gruyter, 277-306. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P(2003)PE.pdf)
* Iatridou, S., E. Anagnostopoulou _&_ R. Izvorski. (2001). “Observations about the form and meaning of the perfect” In M. Kenstowicz (ed.) _Ken Hale: A Life in Language_. MIT Press, 189-238.  
Re-printed in A. Alexiadou, M. Rathert, _&_ A. von Stechow (eds.) (2003) _Perfect Explorations_. Mouton de Gruyter, 153-204. [[pdf]](@root/papers/IA&I(2003)PE.pdf)
* Newman A., R. Pancheva, K. Ozawa, H. Neville _&_ M. Ullman. (2001). "An event-related fMRI study of syntactic and semantic violations", _Journal of Psycholinguistic Research_ 30 (3): 339-364. [[pdf]](@root/papers/NPON&U(2001)JPR.pdf)
* Steinhauer, K., R. Pancheva, A. Newman, S. Gennari _&_ M. Ullman. (2001). "How the mass counts: An electrophysiological approach to the processing of lexical features", _NeuroReport_ 12 (5), 999-1006. [[pdf]](@root/papers/SPNG&U(2001)NR.pdf)
* Pancheva, R. _&_ M. Ullman (2001). "Agrammatic aphasia and the Hierarchy Complexity Hypothesis," Ms., USC _&_ Georgetown University. [[pdf]](@root/papers/P&U(2001)Ms.pdf)
* Izvorski, R. (2000). "Free adjunct free relatives", _WCCFL 19_, Cascadilla Press, 232-245. 
* Ullman, M. _&_ R. Izvorski (2000). "What is special about Broca's Area", _Behavioral & Brain Sciences_ 23 (1), 52-54. [[pdf]](@root/papers/U&I(2000)BBS.pdf)  
Response to Y. Grodzinsky (2000). "The Neurology of Syntax: Language Use Without Broca's Area", _Behavioral & Brain Sciences_ 23, 1-21. [[pdf]](@root/papers/BBS(2000).pdf)
* Izvorski, R. _&_ M. Ullman (1999). "Verb inflection and the hierarchy of functional categories in agrammatic anterior aphasia," _Brain & Language_ 69 (3), 288-291. [[pdf]](@root/papers/I&U(1999)BL.pdf)
* Izvorski, R. (1998). "Non-indicative wh-complements of existential and possessive predicates", In P.N. Tamanji _&_ K. Kusumoto (eds.) _NELS 28_, 159-173. 
* Bhatt, R. _&_ R. Izvorski (1998). “Genericity, implicit arguments and control”, _SCIL 7_. 
* Rudin, C., T. King _&_ R. Izvorski (1998). "Focus in Bulgarian and Russian yes-no questions", In E. Benedicto, M. Romero, _&_ S. Tomioka (eds.) _Proceedings of the Workshop on Focus_, UMass Occasional Papers 21, 209-225. [[pdf]](@root/papers/RK&I(1998).pdf)
* Izvorski, R. (1997). "The present perfect as an epistemic modal", In A. Lawson _&_ E. Cho (eds.), _SALT VII_, CLC Publications: Cornell University. [[pdf]](https://journals.linguisticsociety.org/proceedings/index.php/SALT/article/view/2795)
* Izvorski, R. (1997). "The syntax and semantics of correlative proforms", In K. Kusumoto (ed.) _NELS 26_, 133-147. 
* Izvorski, R. (1997). "Subject free relatives in null-subject languages: Evidence from Slavic", In W. Browne, E. Dornisch, N. Kondrashova _&_ D. Zec (eds.) _Formal Approaches to Slavic Linguistics: The Cornell Meeting_, 267-288. 
* Embick, D. _&_ R. Izvorski (1997). “Participle-auxiliary word orders in Slavic”, In W. Browne, E. Dornisch, N. Kondrashova, _&_ D. Zec (eds.) _Formal Approaches to Slavic Linguistics: The Cornell Meeting_. 
* Izvorski, R., T. King _&_ C. Rudin (1997). "Against _li_-lowering in Bulgarian", _Lingua_ 102 (2/3), 187-194.  [[pdf]](@root/papers/IK&R(1997)L.pdf)
* Izvorski, R. (1996). "(Non-)matching effects in free relatives and pro-drop", in M. Przezdziecki _&_ L. Whaley (eds.) _ESCOL'95_, Cornell University, 89-102. 
* Izvorski, R. (1995). "A solution to the subcomparative paradox", In J. Camacho, L. Choueiri _&_ M. Watanabe (eds.) _WCCFL 14_, CSLI Publications, 203-219. 
* Izvorski, R. (1995). "A DP-shell for comparatives", In A. Bisetti, L. Bruge, J. Costa, R. Goedemans, N. Munaro, _&_ R. van de Vijver (eds.) _ConSole III Proceedings_. The Hague: Holland Academic Graphics, 99-121.  [[pdf]](@root/papers/I(1995)ConSOLE3.pdf)
* Izvorski, R. (1995). “Wh-movement and focus-movement in Bulgarian”, In R. Eckardt _&_ V. van Geenhoven (eds.) _ConSole II Proceedings_. The Hague: Holland Academic Graphics, 54-67. [[pdf]](@root/papers/I(1995)ConSOLE.pdf)
